B2C Implementation Guide (#7310)
auth0/docs: articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c/branding.md

:::

The Login Page comes with [multi-language support](/libraries/lock/v11/i18n) provided by default. In our experience, almost all applications need internationalization/localization, and while it is fairly simple to add during the development phases, it can become difficult at a later stage. As such, we recommend, at the very least, accounting for this need if you do not implement either feature during this phase.

#### Custom login pages

For those who want to build and use a fully-customized user interface using technologies like React or Angular.js, the Auth0 JavaScript SDK ([auth0js](/libraries/auth0js)) allows you to add Auth0 functionality to your custom login page.

### Change Password

The Change Password page is used whenever a user takes advantage of the [Password Reset](#) functionality. Like the Login Page, you can customize the Change Password page to reflect your organization's branding. 

::: panel Content Delivery Networks
If you're using custom Login and/or Change Password pages, we recommend using an external Content Delivery Network (CDN) to help speed up page load and browser rendering time for your pages.
:::

### Errors

> If there are issues with user sign up or login, Auth0 provides error messages that indicate what the problem is under the hood. However, the default messages are somewhat cryptic, especially to the end user, since it will likely be missing context that only you can supply. As such, we recommend customizing your error pages to provide the missing context-specific information directly to your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are issues with user sign up or login Auth0 provides error messages that indicate what the problem is under the hood. The default messages however are somewhat cryptic, especially to the end user, since they will likely be missing context that only you can supply. As such, we recommend customizing your error pages to provide the missing context-specific information directly to your users.
```

> Furthermore, customizing your error pages allows you to display your branding, not Auth0's, as well as provide useful information to your users as to what should be done next. This information might include a link to a FAQ or how to get in touch with your company's support team or help desk.

Reviewer: Does this need to be a separate paragraph? We're still talking about customizing error pages and the paragraph above is not particularly long in the first place.

Reviewer 2: It's a standard practice in web copy to try to keep paragraphs quite short wherever possible, so that you don't lose people's attention.

Reviewer: Thanks @jeffreylees - I think that's a fair point :-)

At the minimum, we recommend that you provide your visitors with:

* Visual indicators like a friendly-name and your logo for display
* An email address and URL for your organization's Support team

> Auth0 does not provide an out-of-the-box user interface for customizing your Error Pages, but you can use the [Tenant Settings endpoint of the Management API](/api/management/v2#!/Tenants/patch_settings) to configure them. Alternatively, if you can create and host your Error Page then you can have Auth0 direct users to that page instead of using the Auth0-hosted option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out-of-the-box there is no user interface for customizing an Error Page hosted by Auth0, but you can create one using an external editor and then use the [Tenant Settings endpoint of the Management API](/api/management/v2#!/Tenants/patch_settings) to configure it. Alternatively, if you can create and host your Error Page then you can have Auth0 direct users to that page instead of using the Auth0-hosted option. 
```

### Custom Domains

By default, the URL associated with your tenant will include its name and possibly a region-specific identifier. For example, tenants based in the US have the URL **example.auth0.com** while those based in Europe have **example.eu.auth0.com**.

If you want to use a name that is consistent with your company's brand, you can configure a [custom domain](/custom-domains). Each tenant can support one custom domain name.

> Moreover, the custom domain functionality offers you complete control over the [certificate management](/custom-domains#certificate-management) process. By default, Auth0 provides standard SSL certificates, but if you configure a custom domain, you can use Extra Validation (EV) SSL certificates or similar to provide the visual, browser-based cues that offer your visitors additional peace of mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, the custom domain functionality offers you complete control over the [certificate management](/custom-domains#certificate-management) process. By default, Auth0 provides standard SSL certificates, but if you configure a custom domain you can use Extra Validation (EV) SSL certificates or similar to provide the visual, browser-based cues that offer your visitors additional peace of mind.
```

> In general, we see customers having the most success when they use a centralized domain for authentication -- this is especially the case if the company offers multiple products or service brands. By using a centralized domain, you can provide end users with a consistent user experience while also minimizing the need to maintain multiple production tenants in Auth0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, we see customers having the most success when they use a centralized domain for authentication -- this is especially the case if the company offers multiple products or service brands. By using a centralized domain, you can provide end users with a consistent user experience whilst also minimizing the need to maintain multiple production tenants in Auth0.
```

Author: "While" is a more modern construction. "Whilst" is somewhat dated.

### Email Templates

::: note
Before customizing Email Templates, please set up your [Email Provider](#).
:::

Auth0 makes extensive use of email to provide both user notifications and to drive the functionality needed for secure identity management (e.g., email verification).

> Out of the box, the email templates used contain standard verbiage and Auth0 branding. However, you can configure almost every aspect of these templates to reflect the verbiage and user experience you want. You can make changes to things like the preferred language, accessibility options, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of the box, email templates contain standard verbiage and Auth0 branding. However, you can configure almost every aspect of these templates to reflect the verbiage and user experience you want, and can make changes to things like the preferred language, accessibility options, and so forth.
```

---
title: Branding

> description: How to brand Auth0 items to reflect your brand and desired user experience

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: How to configure Auth0 items to reflect your brand and desired user experience
```

toc: true
topics:
    - b2c
    - ciam
    - branding
    - universal-login
    - login-pages
    - change-password-pages
    - custom-domains
    - error-pages
contentType: concept
useCase:
    - user-logout
---
# Branding

Auth0 can be customized with a look and feel that aligns with your organization's brand requirements and user expectations. The consistency in appearance improves your customer's experience, giving them peace of mind that the pages they're using can be trusted and are secure.

Some of the items that you can brand include:

* Login, Change Password, and Error pages
* Custom domains
* Email templates

> Auth0 also supports [internationalization (I18N)](/i18n) and localization (L10N), both of which are important if you work with an international clientele.

Reviewer: Is the preference not to make reference to the Lock UI Widget any more?

Reviewer 3: Good question.  It is all we have for localization right now...  So anyone who needs it and doesn't want to write their own will be stuck with Universal Login (Classic) which is Lock :)

Reviewer: Hmmm. It seems that most of the references to the Lock widget from the original B2C Welcome have been removed from the Branding section. I'd like to get a better understanding regarding that, as I feel that removing the references to the Lock widget means we're losing valuable guidance :-(

Author: I'm going to resolve this conversation and we should take it up in another, more general discussion. It affects more than this line in the markdown file.

## Design considerations

For some users, the out-of-box experience -- perhaps with just a touch of alteration -- is more than sufficient. However, for those wanting more control over appearance and user experience, Auth0 provides extensive flexibility when it comes to customizing and configuring things like your [Login](#universal-login), [Change Password](#change-password), and [Error](#errors) pages, [Custom Domain](#custom-domain) and [Email Templates](#email-templates). This allows you to create the user experience look and feel you need.

When considering the items you want to brand, as well as how best to brand these items, you'll want to consider the following.

* Will you brand your login page?

* Will you need to localize your login page?

* Will you customize emails so that they're not just branded, but vary based on user preference?

* How will users know that they're still on your domain when they see your login page?

* What do you need to do to provide additional browser security (e.g., implement Extended Validation)?

* How will you direct users in the event of errors?

> 

Reviewer 3: Should we have a paragraph here that links the questions to the section that answers them?

Reviewer: The original B2C Welcome have such paragraph(s) and I think we should retain them in some form. As per my comments in `articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c/authentication.md`, the intention behind this document is to explicitly guide the reader. The problem with "the answers to these questions and more are detailed below" - or nothing at all - is that the reader has to hunt through all the sections until they find the answer (to a question). The verbiage in the original B2C Welcome was - rather than being specific content - actually designed to be narrative; introductory narrative if you like: the reader only has to go through one (or two) paragraphs until they find where to go next (to get the question answered). Does that make sense?

### Universal Login and Login Pages

> The [Universal Login](/universal-login) process is the recommended method for authenticating users, and it centers around the Login Page. You can customize the Login Page via the Dashboard to support your organization's branding requirements. You can make [simple changes](/universal-login#simple-customization) that include changes to the logo, primary color, or background color, or you can make more [advanced-level changes](/universal-login#advanced-customization) that require you to modify the script powering the page itself directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Universal Login](/universal-login) process is the recommended method for authenticating users, and it centers around the Login Page. You can customize the Login Page via the Dashboard to support your organization's branding requirements. You can make [simple changes](/universal-login#simple-customization) that include changes to the logo, primary color, or background color, or you can make more [advanced changes](/universal-login#advanced-customization) that require you to directly modify the script powering the page itself.
```

Reviewer 2: By the time the B2C PR is merged this may change, as advanced cust. will have its own page when we start differentiating between classic and new UL...

If you opt to customize the Login Page script, we strongly recommend that you:

* [Use version control](/universal-login/version-control) to maintain prior versions
* Deploy changes to your script via [automated deployments](#)

> Once modified, you are responsible for maintaining the script powering your Login Page, including updating the version number of the Lock widget used.

Reviewer: Though, of course, Lock may not be being used.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it could say "the version number of any included libraries"?

Reviewer 3: How about:
```suggestion
Once modified, you are responsible for maintaining the script powering your Login Page, including updating the versions of any links to JavaScript SDKs that you are referencing.
```

Reviewer: Or even: 
```suggestion
Once modified, you are responsible for maintaining the script powering your Login Page, including updating the version number of any Auth0 collateral used (such as the Lock widget or JavaScript SDK).
```

Reviewer: We are, after all, calling attention to the fact that it's the version of the Auth0 collateral that now needs to be maintained; updating the version of any 3rd part library is pretty much always the responsibility of the customer.

::: warning

> Exercise caution regarding the use of third-party JavaScript on your Login Page, since sensitive security-related information often flows through the page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Exercise caution regarding the use of third-party JavaScript on your Login Page, since sensitive security-related information often flows through the page.  Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities in particular can be quite detrimental on this page.
```

Reviewer: Or perhaps:
```suggestion
Exercise caution regarding the use of third-party JavaScript on your Login Page, since sensitive security-related information often flows through the page and the introduction of cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities is of particular concern.
```

:::

> The Login Page comes default with [multi-language support](/libraries/lock/v11/i18n). In our experience, almost all applications need internationalization/localization, and while it is fairly simple to add during the development phases, it can become difficult at a later stage. As such, we recommend, at the very least, accounting for this need if you do not implement either feature during this phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Login Page comes with [multi-language support](/libraries/lock/v11/i18n) provided by default. In our experience, almost all applications need internationalization/localization, and while it is fairly simple to add during the development phases, it can become difficult at a later stage. As such, we recommend, at the very least, accounting for this need if you do not implement either feature during this phase.
```

Reviewer 2: What is this change meant to do? The original is clearer in meaning to me?

Reviewer: Helps if I remember to add all of the change! LOL! Updated it for your review :-)

Reviewer 2: Haha that makes more sense, I probably could've pieced that together sorry 😀

#### Custom login pages

For those who want to build and use a fully-customized user interface using technologies like React or Angular.js, the Auth0 JavaScript SDK ([auth0js](/libraries/auth0js)) allows you to add Auth0 functionality to your custom login page.

### Change Password

The Change Password page is used whenever a user takes advantage of the [Password Reset](#) functionality. Like the Login Page, you can customize the Change Password page to reflect your organization's branding. 

> ::: panel Content Delivery Networks

Reviewer: This panel could probably do with be moved out of this section as it actually applies to any page customization - not just Change password

If you're using custom Login and/or Change Password pages, we recommend using an external Content Delivery Network (CDN) to help speed up page load and browser rendering time for your pages.
:::

### Errors

If there are issues with user sign up or login, Auth0 provides error messages that indicate what the problem is under the hood. However, the default messages are somewhat cryptic, especially to the end user, since it will likely be missing context that only you can supply. As such, we recommend customizing your error pages to provide the missing context-specific information directly to your users.

Furthermore, customizing your error pages allows you to display your branding, not Auth0's, as well as provide useful information to your users as to what should be done next. This information might include a link to a FAQ or how to get in touch with your company's support team or help desk.

At the minimum, we recommend that you provide your visitors with:

* Visual indicators like a friendly-name and your logo for display
* An email address and URL for your organization's Support team

> Auth0 does not provide an out-of-the-box user interface for customizing your Error Pages, but you can use the [Tenant Settings endpoint of the Management API](/api/management/v2#!/Tenants/patch_settings) to configure your pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth0 does not provide an out-of-the-box user interface for customizing your Error Pages, but you can use the [Tenant Settings endpoint of the Management API](/api/management/v2#!/Tenants/patch_settings) to configure them. Alternatively, if you can create and host your Error Page then you can have Auth0 direct users to that page instead of using the Auth0-hosted option. 
```

> If you can create and host your Error Page, you can have Auth0 direct users to that page instead of using the Auth0-hosted option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

### Custom Domains

By default, the URL associated with your tenant will include its name and possibly a region-specific identifier. For example, tenants based in the US have the URL **example.auth0.com** while those based in Europe have **example.eu.auth0.com**.

> If you want to use a name that is consistent with your company's brand, you can configure a **custom domain**. Each tenant supports one custom domain name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use a name that is consistent with your company's brand, you can configure a [custom domain](/custom-domains). Each tenant can support one custom domain name.
```

Moreover, the custom domain functionality offers you complete control over the [certificate management](/custom-domains#certificate-management) process. By default, Auth0 provides standard SSL certificates, but if you configure a custom domain, you can use Extra Validation (EV) SSL certificates or similar to provide the visual, browser-based cues that offer your visitors additional peace of mind.

> In general, we see customers having the most success when they use a centralized domain for authentication -- this is especially the case if the company offers multiple products or service brands. By using a centralized domain, you can provide end users with a consistent user experience while also minimizing the need to maintain multiple production tenants in Auth0.

Reviewer 3: Link to universal login here?  Or does that violate the "no hyperlinks in paragraphs"...

Reviewer: Hmmm. Not sure I understand this suggestion @mostekcm - this section is about Custom Domains. Or are you saying add a link to universal login to reinforce redirection to a central location for authentication?

### Email Templates

::: note
Before customizing Email Templates, please set up your [Email Provider](#).
:::

> Auth0 makes extensive use of email to provide both user notifications and to drive the functionality needed for secure identity management (e.g., email verification).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Auth0 makes extensive use of email to provide both user notifications and to drive the functionality needed for secure identity management (e.g., email verification, account recovery, brute force protections, etc).
```

Author: Changed to: 

> Auth0 makes extensive use of email to provide both user notifications and to drive the functionality needed for secure identity management (for example, email verification, account recovery, and brute force protections).

Out of the box, the email templates used contain standard verbiage and Auth0 branding. However, you can configure almost every aspect of these templates to reflect the verbiage and user experience you want. You can make changes to things like the preferred language, accessibility options, and so on.

> Email templates are customized using [Liquid syntax](/email/liquid-syntax). If you are interested in customizing your templates based on user preferences, you have access to the [metadata](#) located in users' profiles. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Email templates are customized using [Liquid syntax](/email/liquid-syntax). If you are interested in customizing your templates based on user preferences, you have access to the [metadata](#) located in users' profiles as well as any Application Metadata configured for application specific emails.
```

Reviewer: Or perhaps:
```suggestion
Email templates are customized using [Liquid syntax](/email/liquid-syntax). If you are interested in customizing your templates based on user preferences you will also have access to the [metadata](#) located in users' profiles, as well as any specific [application metadata](#) too.
```
